# Drone Swarm Classification

Nowadays, there is an urgent neccesity to detect and classify drone swarms, both for military and civilian purposes. One of the most promising methods is detection of drones using a radar signal. 
It has been proved that RF signatures along with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) provide an accurate approach for classification of the single drones. This repository presents the Python scripts to train, validate and test a deep learning model for classification of drone swarms.
CNN is applied to Short-Time Fourier Transform (STFT) spectrograms of radar signals that are reflected from a drone swarm due to propellers movement. To train and demonstrate the capabilities of the applied approach, a synthetic dataset has been generated, in which the radar return is described by the mathematical model of Martin and Mulgrew. Realistic parameters of drones and radar are taken from paper
Divy Raval,  Emily Hunter, Sinclair Hudson,  Anthony Damini, and Bhashyam Balaji, Convolutional Neural Networks for Classification of Drones Using Radars, Drones 2021, 5, 149. https://doi.org/10.3390/drones5040149.




## Requirements

pytorch
scipy
numpy
matplotlib
scikit-learn



## Usage

train.py  training and validating CNN on your own dataset or dataset generated by imagecreation.py.
test.py  testing the results of training .
 model.py  script of CNN.
imagecreation.py  - generating a dataset for drones swarm.
calculator - calculation of radar return functions, long-window STFT spectrograms
data - contains dictionaries about drones and a swarm of drones.
loaders -  loading dataset to train data.
graphics - used for data visualization: spectrograms, etc. 
fastload - for faster data loading; script taken from:
https://discuss.pytorch.org/t/dataloader-much-slower-than-manual-batching/27014



1.To obfain resuts with the synthetic  dataset provided in the repository, use the imagecreation.py file. Train the model using the data generated and implemented into train.py file. Then, with the data generated for testing, use the test.py script.
2. To apply the model to your own dataset, use the train.py and test.py scripts.





